# Introduction
An Object Oriented Design Interview usually lasts for 45-60 minutes. The following template will guide you on how to manage time duration.

## ✅Requirement Gathering (3-5 mins)

The OOD questions are often abstract & vague. Always ask clarifying questions to understand the exact scope of the problem that the interviewer has in mind.<br>
👉Use cases to cover (MVP)<br>
👉Who will use the system (Actors)<br>

eg. Let's design an online shopping site. Few requirements would be-<br>
Users should be able to-<br>
👉search products.<br>
👉view/buy products.<br>
👉add/remove product items in their shopping cart.<br>
👉place an order.<br>
👉get notifications about order.<br>
👉pay through diff modes.<br>
  
## ✅Use Cases (3-6 mins)

You are expected to find possible actors of the system & write down different use cases the system will support.

👉Actors - Customer, Admin, System

Some of the use cases could be -<br>
👉Search products<br>
👉Add/remove products in the cart<br>
👉Check out to buy items in the cart<br>
👉Make payment to place an order<br>
👉Send notification<br>

## ✅Identify the Core classes (3-6 mins)

After gathering requirements & drafting a few use cases, our understanding of what we are designing becomes clear. Now we should consider what could be the main classes of the system. You are expected to draw a class diagram or write down class names.

👉Nouns in the requirements are possible candidates for Classes like-

👉Product<br>
👉Item<br>
👉User<br>
👉ShoppingCart<br>
👉Order<br>
👉Payment<br>
👉Notification<br>

## ✅Identify the fields of each class (5-10 mins)

Once we know the core classes of the system, it is expected to draw a class diagram along with class fields. Take each class & add a few imp fields which drive the use cases.
eg.<br>
👉Product
  - name
  - desc
  - price

👉User<br>
  - name
  - email
  - phone
etc

## ✅Identify the Relationship between the classes (5-10 mins)

Once we know the core classes of the system, it is expected to draw what is the relationship between the classes. The different types of relationships to draw/write are-

👉Inheritance (is-a)<br>
👉Association (has-a) one-one, one-many & many-many<br>

eg.<br>
👉Customer & Admin inherit from User<br>
👉Customer has One Shopping Cart<br>
👉Shopping Cart has Many Items<br>
etc

## ✅Identify the Actions of the classes (5-10 mins)

Once we are clear with the requirements, use cases & possible design of the system, it is time to identify the different actions classes will perform based on their relationship. Verbs in the requirements are possible candidates for action. They are methods of the classes like-

Customer can -
👉add the item to the cart- addItemToCart(Item item)<br>
👉place an order- placeOrder(Order order)<br>
etc

## ✅ Code (5-8 mins)

The class diagram will give you an idea about the class's name, fields, & methods. You are expected to write code for the methods which fulfill the use case interviewer wants or any algo/data structure which handles certain use cases. 

## ✅Follow-up questions (3-4 mins)

## Creditis: [Dinesh Varyani](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dinesh-varyani/)
