# Design the high level design/app for building a parking system

Given your location, you want the app to show you all the parking structures that are near you.
Within the parking structure, there are empty/open parking spots. Each parking structure near you will also display the number of open parking spots it is.
You are given a device that signals when a car enters and leaves a parking structure to track the number of open spots
The scale for this is that the parking structures are around the globe. We have 10s to millions of parking structures.
Note, this is not a OOD design of defining classes. This is a high level system design.

What is the flow of requests from the client to the db?  
What kind of db would you use?  
Important: Your car is continously moving. How do you continously refresh the nearby parking structures to display in your screen.  
What if you want to zoom out to see more nearby parking structures? How do you handle that?  
How would you optimize this so that if you have a user in India, or another country, it wouldn't send requests all the way to the server in USA? How do the servers talk to each other? How does the client talk to the servers?

## Functional requirement:
- given location, have the app show all parking structures near me
- real-time update of the parking structure status as you move around
- get more info on a specific parking structure
### These functional requirements can be turned into APIs:
- `getParkingStrucutres(user_id, geo_location, radius)` -> return list of parking structures
- `getParkingStructureInfo(parking_strucure_id)` -> return detail info about strucutre, list of available spots, cost, etc.
## Non-functional requirement:
- low latency globally
- highly available
- scalable
## Database schema
- ParkingStructures: parking_struct_id, name, location, address, city, description
- ParkingStatus: parking_struct_id, num_spots_open, max_spots, cost
- User: id, name, other user info
Since parking spot status could get updated frequently i put it in a separate table.   
SQL is a good choice here since we will need the ACID guarantee if we want to book parking on the app. Also, to make query fast, we need to partition db based on locations. longitude and latitude is bad for partitioning, it's better to use geohash, S2, or uber's H3 spatial indexing.
> Note: depending on how quickly you want to refresh the parking spot status, we can pick between polling and websockets. If using polling, we query the sever every few seconds to get an update, the info might become stale but we might not care. If using websockets, the update device can also directly push the update directly to us. Websocket is faster but comes at a cost of having to keep a connection open.

## High Level Design
user -> Load balancer -> app server -> cache -> db api server -> database; update device -> db api server

### Example request:
Typical request would look like the following:   
- user sends a request for `getParkingStrucutres` to LB, which routes him to a app server. 
- Given the user location, app server sends query to db api server to get a list of parking structures in that region, 
- and for each parking structure we need to do join to get the latest status update. 
- These responses are aggregated and sent back to the user.
You also want to set up your special update device to update the ParkingStatus table in real-time.

## Bottleneck and optimizations:
- user should be connected to the same app server. Since in a short time frame the user likely won't move too far away, getParkingStrucutres call can be cached. 
- getParkingStructureInfo call likely can't be cached since it updates too frequently.
- ParkingStructures db should be sharded by city. Partition by geohash allows you to only query a small region to get all the parking structures, instead of the whole world. S2 and H3 are more optimized than geohash by also more complex.

## Other questions:
What is the flow of requests from the client to the db? What kind of db would you use?  
- these were answered above.  
Important: Your car is continuously moving. How do you continously refresh the nearby parking structures to display in your screen.  
- Have the user send request every 4~5 seconds.  
What if you want to zoom out to see more nearby parking structures? How do you handle that?  
- Make the request again but with a larger radius.  
How would you optimize this so that if you have a user in India, or another country, it wouldn't send requests all the way to the server in USA?How do the servers talk to each other? How does the client talk to the servers?
- With db sharded by geo location, Indian users only have to access the db near them and likely won't need to query server in USA. 
- The system I outlined is scalable so we can have servers in each region to server local users. 
- We still need to replicate data across all regions, and with this we could do master-slave replications, 1 write master and 2 read replicas, and have one read replica in different regions.

## References:
I don't think there is a video on this problem specifically, but on youtube you should be able to find system design videos for Uber, Yelp, and Bookmyshow that covers all the technologies needed. I feel like if you went further enough interviewer would ask you to add the reservation components, then it would be very similar to Bookmyshow.
